Parkinson’s Disease (PD) is a growing health concern on a global scale. It is a disease that has no cure and is passed onto generations genetically in the DNA. It is a gradual worsening of neurological functioning of the brain. In the long- term is leads to a total damage of neural circuits, eventually leading to loss of movement in the body. 
Various studies have revealed that in the earliest indication of PD is the voice of an individual as their speech starts to deteriorate. Since it is exceptionally hard to diagnose PD, in recent times there has been an exponential increase in using artificially intelligent machine learning models to detect PD at an early stage using their non-evasive in nature on Vocal data. 
This project builds four different models using the Random Forest classifier, the XGBoost classifier, Logistic Regression and K-Nearest Neighbor classifier to find the best fitting model. Extensive data visualizations are used to form a basis for the pre-processing steps needed to produce accurate results. Using interpretations from the exploratory data analyses, several pre-processing steps are followed – class augmentation, scaling, standardization, winsorization and feature selection using analysis of variance and recursive feature elimination process. After tuning the hyperparameters, the models are built and evaluated using ROC curves, precision, accuracy, f- 1, and recall scores as well as confusion matrices. 
The best overall result achieved is untuned XGB classifier, using all the features or selected features to get a 95% weighted accuracy on unseen data in both cases.

A supplementary file is attached as partB_svm_dt which is a pre-requisite implemented and completed in full to form an understanding of hyperparamter tuning along with algorithm comparison methodologies. 
